README.md, before:

# superset-deployment

Contains a Dockerfile that builds a customised Superset image.  Kubernetes manifest files run the Superset instance in a basic distributed mode.  An equivalent helm chart of the Kubernetes manifest files is also provided.

All instructions are executed from the root directory of the project and assumes the following tools are installed on an Ubuntu OS:

* Docker engine
* kind
* kubectl

## Docker image

### Build

```shell
$ sudo docker build -f dockerfiles/Dockerfile -t alanb-2/superset:2.1.3 .
```

### Test

The custom image can be smoke tested by following the official quickstart documentation [here](https://superset.apache.org/docs/quickstart/) to start, create an account, configure and access the containerised Superset instance.

Note that the Docker image name and tag should be changed to the local name used in the build step above e.g. `alanb-2/superset:2.1.3`.

## Kubernetes

### Initialise cluster

1.  Create the cluster:
    ```shell
    $ sudo kind create cluster --name superset
    ```
2.  Set the kubectl context to use the cluster:
   ```shell
   $ sudo kubectl cluster-info --context kind-superset
   ```
3.  Load the Superset Docker image onto the cluster:
   ```shell
   $ sudo kind load docker-image alanb-2/superset:2.1.3 --name superset
   ```

### Deploy Superset

```shell
sudo kubectl create -f ./k8s
```

### Remove Superset

```shell
sudo kubectl delete -f ./k8s
```

Commit message:

Basic distributed Superset instance
Changes
----
* Add: Flask secret
* Add: Universal config map
* Add: Superset master server
* Add: Superset worker
* Add: Superset scheduler
* Add: Initialisation job
* Add: Service

README.md, after:

# superset-deployment

Contains a Dockerfile that builds a customised Superset image.  Kubernetes manifest files run the Superset instance in a basic distributed mode.  An equivalent helm chart of the Kubernetes manifest files is also provided.

All instructions are executed from the root directory of the project and assumes the following tools are installed on an Ubuntu OS:

* Docker engine
* kind
* kubectl

## Docker image

### Build

```shell
$ sudo docker build -f dockerfiles/Dockerfile -t alanb-2/superset:2.1.3 .
```

### Test

The custom image can be smoke tested by following the official quickstart documentation [here](https://superset.apache.org/docs/quickstart/) to start, create an account, configure and access the containerised Superset instance.

Note that the Docker image name and tag should be changed to the local name used in the build step above e.g. `alanb-2/superset:2.1.3`.

## Kubernetes

### Initialise cluster

1. Create the cluster:
    ```shell
    $ sudo kind create cluster --name superset
    ```
2. Set the kubectl context to use the cluster:
    ```shell
    $ sudo kubectl cluster-info --context kind-superset
    ```
3. Load the Superset Docker image onto the cluster:
    ```shell
    $ sudo kind load docker-image alanb-2/superset:2.1.3 --name superset
    ```

### Run Superset

1. Deploy the Superset components:
    ```shell
    sudo kubectl apply -f ./k8s
    ```
2. Execute the initialisation step
    1. Change the final 7-hexadecimal characters of `.metadata.name` to new values
    2. Change `.spec.template.spec.containers[].env[].INIT_JOB` to `true` 
3. Port forward to enable local access of the service:
    ```shell
    sudo kubectl port-forward service/superset-service 8088:8088
    ```
4. Open a browser and enter `localhost:8088` followed by `admin` and `admin` for the username and password respectively.

### Remove Superset

```shell
sudo kubectl delete -f ./k8s
```
